page 1
I would like to talk about a search ....

page 2
I will first talk about the theoretical introduction.
And then, the experimental setup.
For the analysis workflow, we first need to understand the background very well, mainly focusing on the reducible background, Charge Flip Background and Fake Lepton Background.
and then, we need to optimize the Signal Selection
and check the background in the Validation Region
Finally, we compare the observed events in the data with the background

page 4
SM is the current mainstream theory to describe the fundamental particles and their interactions.
This is the periodic table for all fundamental particles in SM.
On the left side, they are the matter particles, quarks and leptons. In the middle, they are force carrier, the gauge boson. On the right side, we have the recently discovered Higgs boson.

page 5
Here are 3 examples

page 6
Although SM gained a huge success, it still has some limitations.

page 7
So, we need theories for new physics, and supersymmetry is one of the most promising theory.
Supersymmetry(SUSY) is a theoretical extension of the Standard Model.
It can solve the problems in the previous slide.

page 8
On the left, they are SM particle. and on the right, they are their superpartner.

page 10
In order to avoid the proton decay, a quantum number R-parity is introduced.

page 12
On the upper branch, the chargino will decay into a W boson and the lightest neutralino. The W boson will decay leptonically to one lepton (electron or muon) and one neutrino.

On the lower branch, the second lightest neutralino will decay into a higgs boson and the lightest neutralino. The higgs boson will eventually decay to one lepton, neutrino and quatks by various decay modes. For example, higgs to WW and higgs to tau tau.

We search for two same-sign leptons (electron or muon)

page 15
We will use the Large Hadron Collider to accelerate protons.

page 16
This the side view for the whole ATLAS detector. It is 25m tall and 44m long.

page 17
The inner detector is inside a strong magnetic field by a solenoid magnet.
The orange one is the electromagnetic calorimeter, and the blue one is the hadronic calorimeter.
Finally, the muon spectrometer is in the outermost part.
We can distinguish different types of particle by their signatures in different parts of the detector.

page 18
I will talk about some basic kinematic variables in the detector.
First, we will define the z-axis is in the proton beam direction.
Then, we will find the nearest point of track to the z-axis.
The momentum of the particle is defined by the momentum at this nearest point.

The pT is defined by the projection of momentum onto the x-y plane.

The direction of the momentum of the particle can by specified by the azimuthal angle phi and the polar angle theta, as usual in the spherical coordinate system.
The pseudorapidity eta is defined by using the polar angle. You can see how eta depend on the polar angle.
The angle separation delta R of two particles is defined by the delta phi and delta eta.
delta R is invariant under the Lorentz boost.

page 19
There are two types of backgrounds: the reducible SM background and irreducible SM background.

page 21
inside the magnetic field

The first source is due to the material of detector. The blue track is the original track. When electron pass through the material, it will produce bremsstrahlung radiation. The photon will produce a pair of electron and positron. If the track is reconstructed as the orange track, the charge will be flipped.
The second source is due to the very high velocity of the particle. The track is nearly straight and the direction of the curvature will be easily mis-identified.

page 22
I will talk about how to estimate the charge flip background
We first defined the charge-flip rate epsilon i by the the probability that the charge of an electron is flipped, where the index i ...

page 23
Most of the same-sign charge-flip background is because one of the electron is charge-flipped.
It may be due to the leading electron or sub-leading electron.

page 24
I will now talk about how to use likelihood method to measure the charge-flip rate.
The ideas is to use a clean Z->ee process in which the charge of the electron is definitely known.

page 25
and then we convert it into likelihood function by the product over all grids ij.
taking the negative log
At this point, We know the N and Nss, but we don't know epsilon i.
By minimizing this likelihood over all possible epsilon i, the optimized charge-flip rate can be estimated.

page 26
here is the result of charge flip rate. The x-axis is pT of electron and the y-axis is eta of electron. Different colours correspond to different value of charge flip rate.
You can see that charge flip rate increase with pt and eta.

page 28
The fake lepton comes from ...

Finally, the fake lepton can come from the pair production of a photon.

page 29
By using this notation, we have this matrix equation.
It describe how the real or fake lepton, convert to the tight and loose lepton.
We know the number of tight and loose lepton, but we don't know the number of real and fake lepton.

page 30
But we can find the number of fake lepton by inverting the matrix.
And then applying the matrix again, we can find the number of tight lepton due to the fake lepton.

page 31
We can generalize the one-lepton case to the two-leptons case.
We have this matrix equation.

page 33
This is the result for measuring the fake efficiencies.
On the left, it is the electron fake efficiency. On the right, it is the muon fake efficiency.
The x-axis is pT of the lepton, the y-axis is the fake efficiency.
Different colour correspond to different eta range.

page 35
In this slide, I will do some estimation of the signal sensitivity.

By multipiying these two number, we can get the expected number of signal events in one year.

By calculate the ratio of signal event to all event, we can get the probability to have a signal event.

page 42
This is the distribution plot for effective mass.
On the left, it is for the first SR. On the right, it is for the second SR.
The x-asix is effective mass. The y-axis is the number of events.
Different colour correspond to different BG.
The three dashed line is for MC signal with different mass points.
If we apply a cut at 260 GeV, a lagre number of BG at left hand side can be reduced.
By trying different value of the cut, the optimized SR can be found.

page 43
This is the result for the signal optimization. This is the optimizied event selection and the definition of the two signal regions

page 44
This is the expected yields and sensitivity for the two signal regions.
On the left column, they are different type of background and tatol BG and different signal mass point.
You can see that the dominant background is the fake lepton BG and WZ.

page 45
This is the N-1 plot for mT2 varible.
This means that all the other SR selections are applied, except for mT2
In this plot, you can see how the mT2 cut discriminate the signal from the background, if we apply a lower cut.
You can see that on the right side of the cut, the signal to background ratio is higher.

page 49
This is the yield of validation region. You can see the data and the background agree with other within the uncertainties.

page 51
This is yield of the two SR. You can see the observed events in the first SR is 2 and the observed events in the second SR is 8.
The observed events were consistent with the prediction in the SM.

page 52
Although the observed events were consistent with the prediction in the SM.
But, new exclusion limits ...
